#### Making use of your Surroundings

Many students complain, “Yes, I want to do more networking, but I have nobody to network with. How can I know those professionals who are already working? Even I meet them, why are they interested in me?” Fair enough. There must be some people who have broad network due to their family, or are excellent speakers able to impress people in a few seconds. As a person with average IQ and EQ, why not start from the people around you? You must have classmates, must have professors or lecturers in your courses, and probably know some alumni from your faculty or from your country. According to my observation, most people just let these valuable networking assets go!

__Schoolmates__: you can of course lock yourself in the room for the whole day. But then why come so far to the Netherlands to study?! From the friends you know via parties, sports and classes, you may get to know potential hiring opportunities. And what is more important is that they are people together with you to apply for internships and jobs. You won’t feel alone.

__Professors__: many professors are involved in projects with companies in the industry and have some sort of relationship with the industry. Just ask your professors in your class! Some companies may just ask them to recommend some students to do internships or work there. Even not this case, your professors may be able to link you to their contacts in the companies, to whom you can inquire the job opportunity further. The thing here is, you have nothing to lose, even if you fail to get any valuable information or contacts. Two additional tips: 1) to increase the success rate, you at least have to perform well in the class; 2) choose your thesis supervisor carefully – he or she may become an important person to introduce thesis projects / companies contacts to you.

__Alumni__: never underestimate the power of alumni! It is not only a rule in U.S. but also the same everywhere in the world. There may me alumni mentoring program in your university – do try it. There may be alumni from your own country – it should not be a problem to find them and contact them proactively. They can offer you huge help from student life to career life. Their employers may want to hire people from the same background of them, and they may have some internal referral opportunities.