#### The Job Hunters Club

Congratulations on finishing another study year and welcome to the “Job Hunt-ers” club. Membership is free but the competition is fierce, so here are a few guidelines to increase your chances of success in the wilderness of the Rotter-dam labour market.

To begin with, you are likely already familiar with Dutch culture, but there is more to it than meets the foreign eye: cycling your orange bike with a kapsalon in hand is not going to be of much help in a job interview. What could help you jump-start your career, however, is knowing more about the Dutch working culture. For example, in general every team member has an equal say and is expected to contribute to decision making processes, even as a new employee or intern. Note this is not to say suggestions won’t be publicly criticized... It is true the Dutch are extremely direct, but it should not be mistaken for rudeness (piece of advice: practice your poker face in advance). Another strong characteristic of the work environment in the Netherlands is agenda setting – if the meeting is not written down, it is as good
as nothing. So make sure to plan well in advance and keep track of meetings meticulously.

What about Rotterdam in particular, you ask? Well, you might have noticed the city has experienced some wear-and-tear throughout history, resulting in a very pragmatic work culture. More so in Rotterdam than elsewhere in the country, people have the attitude of rolling up their sleeves and getting things done, so hard working is the most desirable quality in a potential employee. Moreover, it is wise not to compare the modern outlook of Rotterdam with the petite cobblestone streets of Amsterdam – Rotterdammers are proud people; rightfully so, as the city has a playing field of its own. Too often the labour market of Rotter-dam is associated with the port alone, when in fact the available space and the break from traditional European old-town style has opened up numerous possibilities for daring architecture and other creative industries. Coupled with a globally recognized port, the local job market has something to offer a student of every faculty, so you don’t have to look far.

Perhaps most importantly, the population of Rotterdam is one of the youngest and most international in the Netherlands meaning two things: first, there are a lot of job opportunities for talent from abroad, and second, you have to know how to present yourself to stand out of the crowd. That is where the initiatives like “Careers Made in Rotterdam” come into play. During this event, the international students are not only familiarized with the major sectors in Rotterdam, but also introduced to the Dutch culture and receive workshops on successful job hunting practices. Here at Expertise in Labour Mobility (ELM) we can’t stress enough how vital soft skills are for international graduates. Of course, studies abroad automatically add a sense of independence, open- mindedness and keenness to your CV, but you should know how to use that to your advantage – make sure the employers understand that leaving your comfort zone at home has made you a more adaptive and flexible person. Under no circumstances play down your unique foreign factor! That doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t make an effort to learn Dutch, but you have something that local job applicants don’t, be it knowledge of a different language or of a different culture. It’s probably a good idea to read up on legalities concerning work permits in the Netherlands too, so that you have the information and answers ready in case a recruiter asks about it (better safe than sorry!).

Although half of the ( job) hunt success depends on being in the right place at the right time, having the right ‘equipment’ matters just as much. A checklist of your strongest weapons should include a motivation letter customized for every company and position, and a concise 1-2 page CV in reverse chronological order. Once you have that polished and ready, you can find your target job position in Dutch newspapers, private and temporary recruitment agencies, company websites, and career fairs. More often than not, speculative applications prove to be an effective job hunting technique in the Netherlands. But don’t expect your Dutch recruiter to give up (more like sign up) without a fight – have answers ready about your leisure activities, strengths and weaknesses, as well as future goals for the interview.

The good news is that you are not alone in the “Job Hunters” club – don’t underestimate the power of networking with your fellow internationals and locals who know their way around Rotterdam. To make you a job hunt pro, ELM offers a comprehensive career guide book “Looking for work in the Netherlands”. Readers of this International Student Guide can get their copy with a 5% discount by quoting this code __ISG2014__. Enjoy the hunt!