#### Expanding Career in Rotterdam

￼In addition to many fun things you can discover in the booklet, we come to a bit more serious topic – career. In the end, most of us need to find a job after study, for pursuing our ambitions, making a living, or for not getting bored with life. Benjamin Franklin used to say, “_By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail._” We do not want that to happen to you. Therefore we want to provide the following job-seeking information and tips to you, on day one. The following three parts will be covered: Policies about part-time, internship and jobs for international students, where to find relevant internship and position information online, and how to make best use of resources around you to secure a job offer.

The content of this section is provided by __[HoiTalent.com](http://HoiTalent.com)__ – the Largest Job Portal for International Talents in the Netherlands. HoiTalent.com (KvK number: 61141151) is a Stichting (non-profit foundation) with a mission to provide international young talents who don’t speak well Dutch, a one-stop job portal where you can find thousands of jobs that’s currently open.

HoiCoaching is a sub-brand of HoiTalent, and it provides 1-2-1 Career / Job Seeking Coaching to international students and young professionals in the Netherlands. We are not a traditional training agency. You will be assigned with a coach who has work experience at the area relevant to your study or targeting career path, and receive the most relevant support on where you want to improve most, from career orientation, CV and cover letter writing, interview, to on-boarding. Welcome to visit [www.hoicoaching.com](http://www.hoicoaching.com) or contact us via [info@hoicoaching.com](mailto:info@hoicoaching.com).